well China has called for an
International Conference to discuss the
war in Gaza the foreign minister has
spoken with both the ministers foreign
Ministers of Palestine and Israel wangi
says that China is worried by the
escalation and is calling for a
two-state solution too to this crisis
well for more on this let's speak to
Katrina Yu in Beijing Katrina as I've
just been saying wangi has been on the
phone to the foreign Ministers of both
sides what are they hoping to
achieve well we've seen this past year
Beijing looking to play more of a of a
role as an international mediator that's
what foreign minister wangi seems to be
doing here he urged both sides for an
immediate deescalation China is very
worried that this war is going to spill
out into a wider conflict so on Monday
he made two separate phone calls to the
foreign minister of the Palestinian
Authority and Israel's foreign minister
now speaking to Riyad Al Maliki he said
that Beijing deeply sympathizes with the
difficulties of the Palestinian people
he's condemned attack on civilians he
said that China is going to continue to
provide humanitarian Aid and he says
what Palestine needs now is security
food and medicine and not war weapons
and ammunition now in a separate phone
call to Israeli foreign minister Eli
Cohen he said that while every country
has the right to self-defense he urged
Israel to do what it can to protect
civilians he says that Tel Aviv has a
choice between War and Peace and it's
imperative that it must do everything it
can to prevent the situation spiraling
into an even further humanitarian
catastrophe now these two phone calls
are the highest level communication that
uh Beijing has had with either
government since the War
Began Katrina I'm curious do you sense a
different approach to this conflict from
developed and developing countries like
Russia and China versus say the
West well China since this conflict
began has called for an immediate
deescalation and ceasefire unlike the US
and many of its allies that have called
Hamas and condemned them as terrorists
Beijing has refused to do so which has
drawn much criticism from Washington and
other Western Nations at the UN though
we saw that China's Representatives had
more direct words it said Israel needs
to stop what it said is a collective
punishment of the people of Gaza and
like some of other nations we've heard
today Bing says the only chance of a
long-term uh peace in that region is the
establishment of a two-state solution
and Beijing has blamed the breaking out
of this conflict on essentially the
International Community shelving the
rights and interests of the Palestinian
people for decades Katrina you there
with the latest view for us from Beijing
thank you
Katrina